USAGE_GUIDE.md, before:

# AI Writing Guide - Usage Guide

## Important: Context Selection Strategy

**DO NOT include all documents in every context.** This guide provides targeted combinations for specific needs.

## Core Principle

The goal is to maintain sophisticated, authoritative writing while avoiding AI detection patterns. We're not dumbing
down content - we're removing performative language while preserving technical depth and professional voice.

## When to Use This Guide

### Always Include (Baseline)

- `CLAUDE.md` - Core instructions only

### Situational Additions

Only add additional documents when:

1. Output shows AI patterns
2. Content lacks authenticity
3. Specific writing challenge emerges
4. Quality check before publication

## Context Combinations by Use Case

### 1. Technical Documentation

**Goal**: Authoritative, precise, professional

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/sophistication-guide.md` (maintaining authority)

**Add if needed**:

- Voice profile (`voice-framework/voices/templates/technical-authority.yaml`) (if needing consistent voice)
- `examples/technical-writing.md` (if struggling with voice)

**Do NOT include**:

- Rewrite exercises (too remedial)
- Common tells (overly restrictive)

### 2. Executive Communications

**Goal**: Professional, strategic, polished but human

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/sophistication-guide.md`
- `context/executive-voice.md`

**Avoid**:

- Technical examples
- Casual voice guides

### 3. Blog Posts / Articles

**Goal**: Engaging, authentic, knowledgeable

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/philosophy.md`
- `patterns/common-ai-tells.md` (only if drafts sound robotic)

### 4. User-Facing Content

**Goal**: Clear, helpful, natural

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `context/quick-reference.md`

**Add for problems**:

- Voice profile (`friendly-explainer` or `casual-conversational`) to calibrate tone
- `examples/rewrite-exercises.md` (if struggling)

### 5. Academic/Research Writing

**Goal**: Scholarly, precise, sophisticated

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/sophistication-guide.md`
- `context/academic-voice.md`

**Note**: Academic contexts may require different voice profiles - formal transitions and structured phrasing are often appropriate here

### 6. Cypherpunk/Technical Mythology

**Goal**: Technical precision wrapped in cultural narrative, infrastructure as folklore

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `context/cypherpunk-voice.md`

**Use for**:

- Protocol documentation with subcultural voice
- Blockchain/crypto technical communications
- Tech manifestos and position papers
- Infrastructure storytelling
- System architecture as cultural revolution

**Note**: Preserves technical accuracy while treating revolutionary concepts as mundane infrastructure

## Progressive Enhancement Strategy

### Level 1: Minimal Intervention

Start with just `CLAUDE.md`. Often sufficient for good models.

### Level 2: Voice Calibration

Apply a voice profile if output shows:

- Generic, impersonal tone
- Inconsistent formality levels
- Lack of domain-appropriate vocabulary

**Built-in voice profiles**:

- `technical-authority` - Direct, precise, confident (docs, APIs)
- `friendly-explainer` - Approachable, encouraging (tutorials)
- `executive-brief` - Concise, outcome-focused (business)
- `casual-conversational` - Relaxed, personal (blogs)

### Level 3: Voice Correction

Add `examples/technical-writing.md` if:

- Content too formal
- Lacking personality
- Missing technical depth

### Level 4: Full Remediation

Only use full suite if content consistently fails. This indicates need for:

- Model adjustment
- Prompt engineering
- Different approach

## Reading Level and Authority

### Maintaining Sophistication

**Wrong interpretation of guidelines**:
> "We built a thing. It works good. Saves money."

**Correct interpretation**:
> "We architected a distributed system using CQRS and event sourcing. Initial benchmarks show 3x throughput improvement
> over the monolithic approach, though operational complexity increased substantially."

### The Balance

- **Keep**: Technical vocabulary, complex sentence structures when needed, domain expertise
- **Remove**: Performative adjectives, formulaic transitions, marketing speak
- **Add**: Specific metrics, implementation details, honest assessments

## Warning Signs You're Over-Correcting

### Too Casual (Loss of Authority)

- Single-syllable words dominating
- Sentence fragments everywhere
- Slang or colloquialisms
- Reading level below 10th grade for technical content

### Still Too AI (Under-Correcting)

- Every paragraph same length
- Formal transitions persist
- No opinions or trade-offs mentioned
- Perfect outcomes only

## Specific Use Case Guidance

### For Code Comments

- Don't use this guide - code comments should be formulaic and clear

### For API Documentation

- Use minimal guide - consistency matters more than voice

### For Sales/Marketing

- Some "banned" patterns are industry standard - use selectively

### For Legal/Compliance

- Formal language often required - skip most guidelines

### For Internal Communications

- Focus on clarity over style - minimal guide usage

## Document Selection Matrix

| Scenario | CLAUDE.md | Philosophy | Voice Profile | Examples | Quick Ref |
|----------|-----------|------------|---------------|----------|-----------|
| First Draft | ✓ | | | | |
| Tone Issues | ✓ | | ✓ | | |
| Too Formal | ✓ | ✓ | casual-conversational | ✓ | |
| Lacks Authority | ✓ | ✓ (sophistication) | technical-authority | | |
| Quick Check | ✓ | | | | ✓ |
| Full Rewrite | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ (select appropriate) | ✓ | |

## Implementation Tips

### 1. Start Light

Begin with minimal context. Add documents only when specific problems emerge.

### 2. Match the Domain

Technical writing needs technical vocabulary. Don't simplify quantum computing to "computer stuff."

### 3. Preserve Voice Appropriateness

- Academic papers can use "Moreover"
- Legal documents need formal language
- API docs should be consistent over conversational

### 4. Test Output

Read result aloud:

- Does it sound intelligent?
- Does it maintain authority?
- Is it appropriate for audience?

### 5. Iterate

If output loses sophistication:

1. Remove restrictive documents
2. Add sophistication guide
3. Adjust prompt to emphasize expertise

## Common Mistakes

### Over-Application

❌ Using all documents for every task ✅ Selective inclusion based on needs

### Wrong Context

❌ Using technical examples for marketing ✅ Matching examples to domain

### Dumbing Down

❌ "The code makes the computer go fast" ✅ "The optimized algorithm reduces time complexity from O(n²) to O(n log n)"

### Losing Professional Voice

❌ "Yeah, so we basically just..." ✅ "We implemented a pragmatic solution that..."

## Voice Framework and Skills

### Voice Framework Addon

The Voice Framework replaces pattern-avoidance approaches with positive voice definition. Instead of listing what to avoid, define the voice you want.

**Voice profile locations** (priority order):

1. Project: `.aiwg/voices/` (project-specific)
2. User: `~/.config/aiwg/voices/` (user-wide)
3. Built-in: `voice-framework/voices/templates/` (AIWG defaults)

**Built-in profiles**:

| Profile | Description | Use For |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `technical-authority` | Direct, precise, confident | API docs, architecture, engineering |
| `friendly-explainer` | Approachable, encouraging | Tutorials, onboarding, education |
| `executive-brief` | Concise, outcome-focused | Business cases, stakeholder comms |
| `casual-conversational` | Relaxed, personal | Blog posts, social, newsletters |

### Voice Skills

Voice skills are auto-applied based on context:

- **voice-apply**: Transform content to match a voice profile
- **voice-create**: Generate new voice profile from description
- **voice-blend**: Combine multiple profiles (e.g., 70% technical + 30% friendly)
- **voice-analyze**: Analyze content's current voice characteristics

**Natural language triggers**:

- "Write this in technical voice" → applies `technical-authority`
- "Make it more casual" → calibrates toward `casual-conversational`
- "Create a voice for API docs" → generates custom profile
- "Blend 70% technical with 30% friendly" → creates weighted combination

### SDLC and MMK Skills

Skills provide domain-specific knowledge that agents automatically load:

**SDLC Skills** (10): artifact-orchestration, gate-evaluation, traceability-check, risk-cycle, security-assessment, test-coverage, architecture-evolution, decision-support, incident-triage, sdlc-reports

**MMK Skills** (8): brand-compliance, audience-synthesis, competitive-intel, approval-workflow, performance-digest, review-synthesis, qa-protocol, data-pipeline

**aiwg-utils Skills** (6): project-awareness, artifact-metadata, parallel-dispatch, nl-router, config-validator, template-engine

Skills are deployed automatically with frameworks (`aiwg use sdlc/marketing/all`).

## Subagents and Automation

### Using Claude Code Agents

For complex writing tasks, leverage specialized agents:

**Quick Start**:

```bash
# Deploy general-purpose writing agents to your project
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode general

# Or deploy all agents (general + SDLC)
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode both
```

**Agent Invocation**:

```text
# For content validation
/writing-validator path/to/content.md

# For prompt optimization
/prompt-optimizer "your prompt text"

# For generating diverse examples
/content-diversifier "base concept or topic"
```

### Available Agent Categories

#### General-Purpose Writing Agents (`/agents/`)

- **writing-validator**: Detects AI patterns and validates authenticity
- **prompt-optimizer**: Enhances prompts for better output quality
- **content-diversifier**: Generates varied examples and perspectives

#### SDLC Framework Agents (`/agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/agents/`)

51 specialized agents covering all development lifecycle phases:

- **Development**: code-reviewer, test-engineer, architecture-designer, debugger, performance-engineer
- **Requirements**: requirements-analyst, requirements-reviewer, business-process-analyst
- **Security**: security-architect, security-gatekeeper, security-auditor, privacy-officer
- **Operations**: devops-engineer, incident-responder, reliability-engineer, deployment-manager
- **Management**: project-manager, product-strategist, executive-orchestrator, intake-coordinator
- And many more specialized roles

See `/agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/README.md` for complete list

### When to Use Subagents

**Use for**:

- Validating large documents for AI patterns
- Generating multiple variations of examples
- Complex multi-step writing projects
- Systematic content improvement

**Don't use for**:

- Simple edits or rewrites
- Single paragraph fixes
- Quick pattern checks

### Parallel Processing

Launch multiple agents for comprehensive work:

```text
1. Writing Validator - Check current content
2. Content Diversifier - Generate alternatives
3. Prompt Optimizer - Improve future outputs
```

## Remember

- **Authority comes from expertise**, not formality
- **Sophistication comes from precision**, not complexity
- **Authenticity comes from honesty**, not casualness
- **Different contexts need different voices**

The goal: Write like an expert who's confident enough to be honest, not an AI trying to impress or a novice trying to be
casual.

Commit message:

docs: replace AI detection messaging with voice control focus
- Updated README hero section to emphasize voice control over detection
- Changed "Writing Quality Before/After" to "Voice Framework" showcase
- Renamed "Remove AI Detection Patterns" use case to "Apply Consistent Voice"
- Updated CLAUDE.md repository purpose and agent descriptions
- Updated USAGE_GUIDE.md core principle and agent descriptions
- Updated writing-quality README to focus on quality validation
- Updated CLI_USAGE.md optimization strategy descriptions

The messaging now focuses on what users want (consistent voice) rather
than what they want to avoid (AI patterns). Voice Framework provides
positive voice definition as the preferred approach.

USAGE_GUIDE.md, after:

# AI Writing Guide - Usage Guide

## Important: Context Selection Strategy

**DO NOT include all documents in every context.** This guide provides targeted combinations for specific needs.

## Core Principle

The goal is to maintain sophisticated, authoritative writing with consistent voice control. We're not dumbing
down content - we're defining positive voice characteristics while preserving technical depth and professional voice.

## When to Use This Guide

### Always Include (Baseline)

- `CLAUDE.md` - Core instructions only

### Situational Additions

Only add additional documents when:

1. Output lacks consistent voice
2. Content lacks authenticity
3. Specific writing challenge emerges
4. Quality check before publication

## Context Combinations by Use Case

### 1. Technical Documentation

**Goal**: Authoritative, precise, professional

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/sophistication-guide.md` (maintaining authority)

**Add if needed**:

- Voice profile (`voice-framework/voices/templates/technical-authority.yaml`) (if needing consistent voice)
- `examples/technical-writing.md` (if struggling with voice)

**Do NOT include**:

- Rewrite exercises (too remedial)
- Common tells (overly restrictive)

### 2. Executive Communications

**Goal**: Professional, strategic, polished but human

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/sophistication-guide.md`
- `context/executive-voice.md`

**Avoid**:

- Technical examples
- Casual voice guides

### 3. Blog Posts / Articles

**Goal**: Engaging, authentic, knowledgeable

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/philosophy.md`
- Voice profile (`casual-conversational` or custom)

### 4. User-Facing Content

**Goal**: Clear, helpful, natural

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `context/quick-reference.md`

**Add for problems**:

- Voice profile (`friendly-explainer` or `casual-conversational`) to calibrate tone
- `examples/rewrite-exercises.md` (if struggling)

### 5. Academic/Research Writing

**Goal**: Scholarly, precise, sophisticated

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `core/sophistication-guide.md`
- `context/academic-voice.md`

**Note**: Academic contexts may require different voice profiles - formal transitions and structured phrasing are often appropriate here

### 6. Cypherpunk/Technical Mythology

**Goal**: Technical precision wrapped in cultural narrative, infrastructure as folklore

**Include**:

- `CLAUDE.md`
- `context/cypherpunk-voice.md`

**Use for**:

- Protocol documentation with subcultural voice
- Blockchain/crypto technical communications
- Tech manifestos and position papers
- Infrastructure storytelling
- System architecture as cultural revolution

**Note**: Preserves technical accuracy while treating revolutionary concepts as mundane infrastructure

## Progressive Enhancement Strategy

### Level 1: Minimal Intervention

Start with just `CLAUDE.md`. Often sufficient for good models.

### Level 2: Voice Calibration

Apply a voice profile if output shows:

- Generic, impersonal tone
- Inconsistent formality levels
- Lack of domain-appropriate vocabulary

**Built-in voice profiles**:

- `technical-authority` - Direct, precise, confident (docs, APIs)
- `friendly-explainer` - Approachable, encouraging (tutorials)
- `executive-brief` - Concise, outcome-focused (business)
- `casual-conversational` - Relaxed, personal (blogs)

### Level 3: Voice Correction

Add `examples/technical-writing.md` if:

- Content too formal
- Lacking personality
- Missing technical depth

### Level 4: Full Remediation

Only use full suite if content consistently fails. This indicates need for:

- Model adjustment
- Prompt engineering
- Different approach

## Reading Level and Authority

### Maintaining Sophistication

**Wrong interpretation of guidelines**:
> "We built a thing. It works good. Saves money."

**Correct interpretation**:
> "We architected a distributed system using CQRS and event sourcing. Initial benchmarks show 3x throughput improvement
> over the monolithic approach, though operational complexity increased substantially."

### The Balance

- **Keep**: Technical vocabulary, complex sentence structures when needed, domain expertise
- **Remove**: Performative adjectives, formulaic transitions, marketing speak
- **Add**: Specific metrics, implementation details, honest assessments

## Warning Signs You're Over-Correcting

### Too Casual (Loss of Authority)

- Single-syllable words dominating
- Sentence fragments everywhere
- Slang or colloquialisms
- Reading level below 10th grade for technical content

### Voice Mismatch (Under-Correcting)

- Every paragraph same length
- Formal transitions persist
- No opinions or trade-offs mentioned
- Perfect outcomes only

## Specific Use Case Guidance

### For Code Comments

- Don't use this guide - code comments should be formulaic and clear

### For API Documentation

- Use minimal guide - consistency matters more than voice

### For Sales/Marketing

- Some "banned" patterns are industry standard - use selectively

### For Legal/Compliance

- Formal language often required - skip most guidelines

### For Internal Communications

- Focus on clarity over style - minimal guide usage

## Document Selection Matrix

| Scenario | CLAUDE.md | Philosophy | Voice Profile | Examples | Quick Ref |
|----------|-----------|------------|---------------|----------|-----------|
| First Draft | ✓ | | | | |
| Tone Issues | ✓ | | ✓ | | |
| Too Formal | ✓ | ✓ | casual-conversational | ✓ | |
| Lacks Authority | ✓ | ✓ (sophistication) | technical-authority | | |
| Quick Check | ✓ | | | | ✓ |
| Full Rewrite | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ (select appropriate) | ✓ | |

## Implementation Tips

### 1. Start Light

Begin with minimal context. Add documents only when specific problems emerge.

### 2. Match the Domain

Technical writing needs technical vocabulary. Don't simplify quantum computing to "computer stuff."

### 3. Preserve Voice Appropriateness

- Academic papers can use "Moreover"
- Legal documents need formal language
- API docs should be consistent over conversational

### 4. Test Output

Read result aloud:

- Does it sound intelligent?
- Does it maintain authority?
- Is it appropriate for audience?

### 5. Iterate

If output loses sophistication:

1. Remove restrictive documents
2. Add sophistication guide
3. Adjust prompt to emphasize expertise

## Common Mistakes

### Over-Application

❌ Using all documents for every task ✅ Selective inclusion based on needs

### Wrong Context

❌ Using technical examples for marketing ✅ Matching examples to domain

### Dumbing Down

❌ "The code makes the computer go fast" ✅ "The optimized algorithm reduces time complexity from O(n²) to O(n log n)"

### Losing Professional Voice

❌ "Yeah, so we basically just..." ✅ "We implemented a pragmatic solution that..."

## Voice Framework and Skills

### Voice Framework Addon

The Voice Framework replaces pattern-avoidance approaches with positive voice definition. Instead of listing what to avoid, define the voice you want.

**Voice profile locations** (priority order):

1. Project: `.aiwg/voices/` (project-specific)
2. User: `~/.config/aiwg/voices/` (user-wide)
3. Built-in: `voice-framework/voices/templates/` (AIWG defaults)

**Built-in profiles**:

| Profile | Description | Use For |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `technical-authority` | Direct, precise, confident | API docs, architecture, engineering |
| `friendly-explainer` | Approachable, encouraging | Tutorials, onboarding, education |
| `executive-brief` | Concise, outcome-focused | Business cases, stakeholder comms |
| `casual-conversational` | Relaxed, personal | Blog posts, social, newsletters |

### Voice Skills

Voice skills are auto-applied based on context:

- **voice-apply**: Transform content to match a voice profile
- **voice-create**: Generate new voice profile from description
- **voice-blend**: Combine multiple profiles (e.g., 70% technical + 30% friendly)
- **voice-analyze**: Analyze content's current voice characteristics

**Natural language triggers**:

- "Write this in technical voice" → applies `technical-authority`
- "Make it more casual" → calibrates toward `casual-conversational`
- "Create a voice for API docs" → generates custom profile
- "Blend 70% technical with 30% friendly" → creates weighted combination

### SDLC and MMK Skills

Skills provide domain-specific knowledge that agents automatically load:

**SDLC Skills** (10): artifact-orchestration, gate-evaluation, traceability-check, risk-cycle, security-assessment, test-coverage, architecture-evolution, decision-support, incident-triage, sdlc-reports

**MMK Skills** (8): brand-compliance, audience-synthesis, competitive-intel, approval-workflow, performance-digest, review-synthesis, qa-protocol, data-pipeline

**aiwg-utils Skills** (6): project-awareness, artifact-metadata, parallel-dispatch, nl-router, config-validator, template-engine

Skills are deployed automatically with frameworks (`aiwg use sdlc/marketing/all`).

## Subagents and Automation

### Using Claude Code Agents

For complex writing tasks, leverage specialized agents:

**Quick Start**:

```bash
# Deploy general-purpose writing agents to your project
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode general

# Or deploy all agents (general + SDLC)
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode both
```

**Agent Invocation**:

```text
# For content validation
/writing-validator path/to/content.md

# For prompt optimization
/prompt-optimizer "your prompt text"

# For generating diverse examples
/content-diversifier "base concept or topic"
```

### Available Agent Categories

#### General-Purpose Writing Agents (`/agents/`)

- **writing-validator**: Validates voice consistency and content authenticity
- **prompt-optimizer**: Enhances prompts for better output quality
- **content-diversifier**: Generates varied examples and perspectives

#### SDLC Framework Agents (`/agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/agents/`)

51 specialized agents covering all development lifecycle phases:

- **Development**: code-reviewer, test-engineer, architecture-designer, debugger, performance-engineer
- **Requirements**: requirements-analyst, requirements-reviewer, business-process-analyst
- **Security**: security-architect, security-gatekeeper, security-auditor, privacy-officer
- **Operations**: devops-engineer, incident-responder, reliability-engineer, deployment-manager
- **Management**: project-manager, product-strategist, executive-orchestrator, intake-coordinator
- And many more specialized roles

See `/agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/README.md` for complete list

### When to Use Subagents

**Use for**:

- Validating large documents for voice consistency
- Generating multiple variations of examples
- Complex multi-step writing projects
- Systematic content improvement

**Don't use for**:

- Simple edits or rewrites
- Single paragraph fixes
- Quick pattern checks

### Parallel Processing

Launch multiple agents for comprehensive work:

```text
1. Writing Validator - Check current content
2. Content Diversifier - Generate alternatives
3. Prompt Optimizer - Improve future outputs
```

## Remember

- **Authority comes from expertise**, not formality
- **Sophistication comes from precision**, not complexity
- **Authenticity comes from honesty**, not casualness
- **Different contexts need different voices**

The goal: Write like an expert who's confident enough to be honest, not an AI trying to impress or a novice trying to be
casual.
