agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/hooks/pre-architecture-decision.md, before:

# pre-architecture-decision

Enforce Tree of Thoughts exploration before committing to architectural decisions.

## Trigger

- Agent writes to `.aiwg/architecture/adr-*.md`
- Agent creates architectural decision record
- Agent modifies system architecture document

## Enforcement Level

**WARN** - Generates warning if no ToT exploration evidence exists for the decision.

## Behavior

When triggered:

1. **Check for ToT evidence**:
   - Verify that a scoring matrix exists for this decision
   - Check if >= 2 alternatives were evaluated
   - Look for weighted criteria documentation

2. **If ToT evidence found**:
   - Validate scoring completeness (all criteria scored for all alternatives)
   - Verify backtracking triggers are defined
   - Allow the write to proceed

3. **If NO ToT evidence found**:
   - Issue WARNING: "Architecture decision lacks ToT exploration"
   - Suggest running `/tot-decide` before finalizing
   - Allow write to proceed (WARN, not BLOCK)
   - Log the skip for audit trail

4. **Exceptions**:
   - Trivial decisions (configuration changes, version bumps)
   - Decisions explicitly marked `tot_skip: true` with documented reason
   - Emergency hotfix decisions (must be reviewed within 48 hours)

## Warning Format

```
WARNING: Architecture Decision Without ToT Exploration
=========================================================
File: .aiwg/architecture/adr-xxx.md

No Tree of Thoughts exploration found for this decision.
ToT exploration improves decision quality by evaluating
k=3+ alternatives with weighted scoring.

Suggestions:
  1. Run: /tot-decide "[decision context]"
  2. Or add to ADR: `tot_skip: true` with reason

Learn more: @.aiwg/flows/docs/tot-architecture-guide.md
=========================================================
```

## Configuration

```yaml
hook:
  name: pre-architecture-decision
  type: pre-write
  enforcement: warn
  triggers:
    - pattern: ".aiwg/architecture/adr-*.md"
    - pattern: ".aiwg/architecture/sad.md"
  skip_conditions:
    - file_contains: "tot_skip: true"
    - file_contains: "## Alternatives Evaluated"
    - emergency_flag: true
```

## References

- @.aiwg/flows/schemas/tree-of-thought.yaml - ToT schema
- @.aiwg/flows/docs/tot-architecture-guide.md - Guide
- @agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/commands/tot-decide.md - ToT command
- @agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/skills/tot-exploration/SKILL.md - ToT skill
- @.aiwg/research/findings/REF-020-tree-of-thoughts.md - Research foundation

Commit message:

refactor(schemas): move 67 schemas from .aiwg/ to agentic/code/
Relocated all framework schemas from project-local .aiwg/ to framework
source locations in agentic/code/, completing the disambiguation work
started in commit 7d99e7f.

Schema migrations:
- .aiwg/flows/schemas/ (43) → agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/schemas/flows/
- .aiwg/ralph/schemas/ (8) → agentic/code/addons/ralph/schemas/
- .aiwg/research/schemas/ (11) → agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/schemas/research/
- .aiwg/research/provenance/schemas/ (4) → agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/schemas/provenance/
- .aiwg/mcp/schemas/ (1) → agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/schemas/mcp/

Reference rewrites (73 files):
- Updated all @.aiwg/ schema references to @agentic/code/ equivalents
- Rewrote references in agent definitions, commands, hooks, skills
- Updated internal cross-references within schemas
- Updated references in .aiwg/ non-schema files (docs, provenance records)

Subdirectories added to handle name collisions between flows/ and
research/ schemas (hallucination-detection.yaml, quality-assessment.yaml).

Also removed live demo line from README.md.

Refs #94

agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/hooks/pre-architecture-decision.md, after:

# pre-architecture-decision

Enforce Tree of Thoughts exploration before committing to architectural decisions.

## Trigger

- Agent writes to `.aiwg/architecture/adr-*.md`
- Agent creates architectural decision record
- Agent modifies system architecture document

## Enforcement Level

**WARN** - Generates warning if no ToT exploration evidence exists for the decision.

## Behavior

When triggered:

1. **Check for ToT evidence**:
   - Verify that a scoring matrix exists for this decision
   - Check if >= 2 alternatives were evaluated
   - Look for weighted criteria documentation

2. **If ToT evidence found**:
   - Validate scoring completeness (all criteria scored for all alternatives)
   - Verify backtracking triggers are defined
   - Allow the write to proceed

3. **If NO ToT evidence found**:
   - Issue WARNING: "Architecture decision lacks ToT exploration"
   - Suggest running `/tot-decide` before finalizing
   - Allow write to proceed (WARN, not BLOCK)
   - Log the skip for audit trail

4. **Exceptions**:
   - Trivial decisions (configuration changes, version bumps)
   - Decisions explicitly marked `tot_skip: true` with documented reason
   - Emergency hotfix decisions (must be reviewed within 48 hours)

## Warning Format

```
WARNING: Architecture Decision Without ToT Exploration
=========================================================
File: .aiwg/architecture/adr-xxx.md

No Tree of Thoughts exploration found for this decision.
ToT exploration improves decision quality by evaluating
k=3+ alternatives with weighted scoring.

Suggestions:
  1. Run: /tot-decide "[decision context]"
  2. Or add to ADR: `tot_skip: true` with reason

Learn more: @.aiwg/flows/docs/tot-architecture-guide.md
=========================================================
```

## Configuration

```yaml
hook:
  name: pre-architecture-decision
  type: pre-write
  enforcement: warn
  triggers:
    - pattern: ".aiwg/architecture/adr-*.md"
    - pattern: ".aiwg/architecture/sad.md"
  skip_conditions:
    - file_contains: "tot_skip: true"
    - file_contains: "## Alternatives Evaluated"
    - emergency_flag: true
```

## References

- @agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/schemas/flows/tree-of-thought.yaml - ToT schema
- @.aiwg/flows/docs/tot-architecture-guide.md - Guide
- @agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/commands/tot-decide.md - ToT command
- @agentic/code/frameworks/sdlc-complete/skills/tot-exploration/SKILL.md - ToT skill
- @.aiwg/research/findings/REF-020-tree-of-thoughts.md - Research foundation
