tools/install/README.md, before:

# Installer

One-liner installs the framework to a standard location and registers CLI aliases:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh | bash
```

Options:
```bash
# View help
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh)" -- --help

# Custom repo/prefix/branch/alias-file
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh)" -- \
  --repo https://github.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide.git \
  --branch main \
  --prefix $HOME/.local/share/ai-writing-guide \
  --alias-file $HOME/.bash_aliases

# Auto-install Node.js (attempt via NodeSource/Homebrew/etc.)
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh)" -- --auto-install-node
```

Aliases installed:
- `aiwg-deploy-agents` → copy shared agents into `.claude/agents` of current dir
- `aiwg-new` → scaffold a new project with intake templates (and optional agents)
  - Both commands auto-update the installed framework (git pull) before executing.

Scaffolding:
```bash
# In a new/empty project directory
aiwg-new               # create docs/sdlc/intake/*.md and a README
aiwg-deploy-agents     # copy shared agents into .claude/agents
```

Node.js requirement:
- Node >= 18.20.8 (Latest LTS: Hydrogen)
- The installer checks your Node version and can attempt to install when `--auto-install-node` is used.
- If automatic install is not possible, it prints instructions for NVM and NodeSource.

Commit message:

feat(new): auto-deploy agents and init git on project creation
aiwg-new now deploys shared agents by default (use --no-agents to skip) and initializes a git repo on branch main with a sensible .gitignore. Updated docs to reflect behavior.

tools/install/README.md, after:

# Installer

One-liner installs the framework to a standard location and registers CLI aliases:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh | bash
```

Options:
```bash
# View help
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh)" -- --help

# Custom repo/prefix/branch/alias-file
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh)" -- \
  --repo https://github.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide.git \
  --branch main \
  --prefix $HOME/.local/share/ai-writing-guide \
  --alias-file $HOME/.bash_aliases

# Auto-install Node.js (attempt via NodeSource/Homebrew/etc.)
bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manitcor/ai-writing-guide/main/tools/install/install.sh)" -- --auto-install-node
```

Aliases installed:
- `aiwg-deploy-agents` → copy shared agents into `.claude/agents` of current dir
- `aiwg-new` → scaffold a new project with intake templates (and optional agents)
  - Both commands auto-update the installed framework (git pull) before executing.

Scaffolding:
```bash
# In a new/empty project directory
aiwg-new               # create docs/sdlc/intake/*.md and a README
# agents are deployed automatically by aiwg-new (use --no-agents to skip)
```

Node.js requirement:
- Node >= 18.20.8 (Latest LTS: Hydrogen)
- The installer checks your Node version and can attempt to install when `--auto-install-node` is used.
- If automatic install is not possible, it prints instructions for NVM and NodeSource.
