agentic/code/addons/writing-quality/validation/banned-patterns.md, before:

# Banned Patterns and Phrases

## Usage Frequency Guidelines

Some words are acceptable when used sparingly (1:1000 or 1:10000 word ratio) but become AI detection signals when
overused (1:100 ratio). Words like "manifest," "revolutionary," and "next-generation" should only appear when they are
truly the most salient option, not as default descriptors.

## Critical Banned Phrases

These phrases immediately identify content as AI-generated. **Never use them.**

### Corporate/Marketing Speak

- plays a vital/crucial/key/essential role
- seamlessly integrates/integrated/integration
- cutting-edge technology/solution/platform
- state-of-the-art
- transformative/revolutionary/groundbreaking
- next-generation/next generation
- manifest/manifests/manifesting/manifestation
- comprehensive platform/solution/approach
- innovative methodology/approach/solution
- robust and scalable
- best-in-class
- industry-leading
- game-changing
- paradigm shift
- synergy/synergistic
- leverage/leveraging (as a verb)
- utilize (just use "use")
- facilitate (usually unnecessary)

### Vague Intensifiers

- dramatically improves/improved
- significantly enhances/enhanced
- substantially reduces/reduced
- greatly increases/increased
- vastly superior
- highly effective
- extremely valuable
- remarkably efficient

### Academic/Formal Phrases

- it is worth noting that
- it is important to note that
- it should be mentioned that
- underscores the importance of
- highlights the significance of
- demonstrates the value of
- emphasizes the need for
- serves as a testament to
- bears witness to
- speaks volumes about

### Formulaic Transitions

- Moreover,
- Furthermore,
- Additionally,
- In addition,
- Consequently,
- Subsequently,
- Nevertheless,
- Nonetheless,
- In conclusion,
- In summary,
- To summarize,
- All in all,
- On the one hand... On the other hand,

### Overused Metaphors

- at the heart of
- forms the backbone of
- serves as the foundation
- acts as a cornerstone
- functions as a bridge
- represents a milestone
- marks a turning point

### Cliché Descriptions

- vibrant ecosystem
- rich heritage/history
- diverse landscape
- thriving community
- dynamic environment
- bustling activity
- nestled in/between
- tucked away

### Performative Language

- aims to provide
- seeks to deliver
- strives to achieve
- endeavors to create
- designed to enhance
- intended to facilitate
- meant to streamline
- poised to transform

## Structural Patterns to Avoid

### Three-Item Lists

❌ "The system is reliable, scalable, and secure" ❌ "Fast, efficient, and cost-effective" ✅ Use varying list lengths or
skip lists entirely

### Em-Dash Overuse

❌ "The system — a comprehensive platform — delivers value" ✅ Use sparingly, maybe once per document

### Consistent Paragraph Structure

❌ Every paragraph: Topic sentence → 3 supporting points → Conclusion ✅ Vary paragraph structure and length

### Section Summaries

❌ Ending sections with "This approach ensures..." ✅ Just end when the point is made

### Title Case Headers

❌ "Implementation Of The New System" ✅ "Implementation of the new system" or "IMPLEMENTATION"

## Detection Red Flags

### Hedge Words (Overused)

- may help to
- can serve to
- might facilitate
- could enhance
- has the potential to
- offers the opportunity to

### Overly Balanced Statements

❌ "While X presents challenges, it also offers opportunities" ❌ "Although Y has limitations, its benefits outweigh..." ✅
Pick a side or state facts directly

### Academic Passive Voice

❌ "It has been observed that..." ❌ "It can be argued that..." ✅ "We observed..." or just state the observation

### Conclusion Starters

❌ "In conclusion..." ❌ "To sum up..." ❌ "Ultimately..." ✅ Just end or use a forward-looking statement

## Subtle Patterns

### The "Journey" Narrative

❌ "Our journey began..." ❌ "Throughout this journey..." ❌ "The path forward..."

### The "Landscape" Metaphor

❌ "In today's digital landscape..." ❌ "Navigating the complex landscape of..." ❌ "The evolving landscape of
technology..."

### The "Solutions" Fixation

❌ Everything is a "solution" ✅ Use: system, tool, approach, method, process

### The "Commitment" Declaration

❌ "We remain committed to..." ❌ "Our unwavering commitment..." ❌ "Demonstrates our commitment..."

## Quick Reference Test

If your text contains ANY of these exact phrases, rewrite:

1. "plays a [vital/crucial/key] role"
2. "seamlessly"
3. "cutting-edge"
4. "Moreover," or "Furthermore,"
5. "testament to"
6. "underscores"
7. "comprehensive solution"
8. "innovative approach"
9. "dramatically improves"
10. "In conclusion,"

## Replacement Guide

Instead of banned phrases, use:

- "plays a crucial role" → "handles" / "manages" / "does"
- "seamlessly integrates" → "works with" / "connects to"
- "cutting-edge" → "new" / "recent" / specific tech name
- "Moreover," → [just start the next sentence]
- "comprehensive solution" → [specific description of what it does]
- "innovative approach" → "different method" / specific technique
- "dramatically improves" → [specific metric]
- "robust" → "handles X requests/second" / "99.9% uptime"
- "manifest" → "show" / "appear" / "create" / "build"
- "revolutionary" → "different" / "new" / [specific change description]
- "next-generation" → "new" / "updated" / "version 2.0" / [specific version]

## Remember

The goal isn't to avoid these phrases by using synonyms. It's to write in a fundamentally different way - direct,
specific, and natural.

Commit message:

feat: add Voice Framework addon (P0)
Introduces a new voice profile system for crafting and applying consistent
writing styles. This replaces the deprecated pattern-avoidance approach
with a positive voice-definition model.

Voice Framework:
- JSON Schema for voice profiles (tone, vocabulary, structure, perspective)
- 4 built-in voice templates:
  - technical-authority: Direct, precise for docs and architecture
  - friendly-explainer: Approachable for tutorials and onboarding
  - executive-brief: Concise for business cases and stakeholder comms
  - casual-conversational: Relaxed for blogs and social content
- voice-apply skill: Transforms content to match voice profiles
- voice_loader.py: Load/validate profiles from project, user, or built-in locations

Deprecations:
- banned-patterns.md marked deprecated (modern models don't need pattern lists)
- Pattern-avoidance approach superseded by voice profiles

Voice Profile Features:
- Tone scales (0-1): formality, confidence, warmth, energy, complexity
- Vocabulary guidance: prefer/avoid/domain terms/signature phrases
- Structure patterns: sentence/paragraph length, lists, examples, analogies
- Perspective: narrative person, stance, reader relationship
- Authenticity markers: tradeoffs, uncertainty, specifics, constraints

Usage:
- Define voices in .aiwg/voices/ or ~/.config/aiwg/voices/
- Reference built-in voices by name
- Blend voices: "70% technical + 30% friendly"
- Calibrate: "make it 20% more casual"

Ref: .aiwg/planning/voice-framework-plan.md

agentic/code/addons/writing-quality/validation/banned-patterns.md, after:

# Banned Patterns and Phrases

> **⚠️ DEPRECATION NOTICE**
>
> This document is **deprecated** as of December 2025. Modern frontier models (Claude Opus 4.5, GPT-5, etc.) naturally produce varied, authentic content without needing explicit pattern avoidance lists.
>
> **Use Instead**: The [Voice Framework](../../voice-framework/) addon provides voice profiles for crafting consistent, authentic writing styles. Rather than avoiding patterns, define the voice you want.
>
> ```bash
> # Deploy voice framework
> aiwg use writing
> ```
>
> This file is retained for historical reference and edge cases only.

---

## Usage Frequency Guidelines

Some words are acceptable when used sparingly (1:1000 or 1:10000 word ratio) but become AI detection signals when
overused (1:100 ratio). Words like "manifest," "revolutionary," and "next-generation" should only appear when they are
truly the most salient option, not as default descriptors.

## Critical Banned Phrases

These phrases immediately identify content as AI-generated. **Never use them.**

### Corporate/Marketing Speak

- plays a vital/crucial/key/essential role
- seamlessly integrates/integrated/integration
- cutting-edge technology/solution/platform
- state-of-the-art
- transformative/revolutionary/groundbreaking
- next-generation/next generation
- manifest/manifests/manifesting/manifestation
- comprehensive platform/solution/approach
- innovative methodology/approach/solution
- robust and scalable
- best-in-class
- industry-leading
- game-changing
- paradigm shift
- synergy/synergistic
- leverage/leveraging (as a verb)
- utilize (just use "use")
- facilitate (usually unnecessary)

### Vague Intensifiers

- dramatically improves/improved
- significantly enhances/enhanced
- substantially reduces/reduced
- greatly increases/increased
- vastly superior
- highly effective
- extremely valuable
- remarkably efficient

### Academic/Formal Phrases

- it is worth noting that
- it is important to note that
- it should be mentioned that
- underscores the importance of
- highlights the significance of
- demonstrates the value of
- emphasizes the need for
- serves as a testament to
- bears witness to
- speaks volumes about

### Formulaic Transitions

- Moreover,
- Furthermore,
- Additionally,
- In addition,
- Consequently,
- Subsequently,
- Nevertheless,
- Nonetheless,
- In conclusion,
- In summary,
- To summarize,
- All in all,
- On the one hand... On the other hand,

### Overused Metaphors

- at the heart of
- forms the backbone of
- serves as the foundation
- acts as a cornerstone
- functions as a bridge
- represents a milestone
- marks a turning point

### Cliché Descriptions

- vibrant ecosystem
- rich heritage/history
- diverse landscape
- thriving community
- dynamic environment
- bustling activity
- nestled in/between
- tucked away

### Performative Language

- aims to provide
- seeks to deliver
- strives to achieve
- endeavors to create
- designed to enhance
- intended to facilitate
- meant to streamline
- poised to transform

## Structural Patterns to Avoid

### Three-Item Lists

❌ "The system is reliable, scalable, and secure" ❌ "Fast, efficient, and cost-effective" ✅ Use varying list lengths or
skip lists entirely

### Em-Dash Overuse

❌ "The system — a comprehensive platform — delivers value" ✅ Use sparingly, maybe once per document

### Consistent Paragraph Structure

❌ Every paragraph: Topic sentence → 3 supporting points → Conclusion ✅ Vary paragraph structure and length

### Section Summaries

❌ Ending sections with "This approach ensures..." ✅ Just end when the point is made

### Title Case Headers

❌ "Implementation Of The New System" ✅ "Implementation of the new system" or "IMPLEMENTATION"

## Detection Red Flags

### Hedge Words (Overused)

- may help to
- can serve to
- might facilitate
- could enhance
- has the potential to
- offers the opportunity to

### Overly Balanced Statements

❌ "While X presents challenges, it also offers opportunities" ❌ "Although Y has limitations, its benefits outweigh..." ✅
Pick a side or state facts directly

### Academic Passive Voice

❌ "It has been observed that..." ❌ "It can be argued that..." ✅ "We observed..." or just state the observation

### Conclusion Starters

❌ "In conclusion..." ❌ "To sum up..." ❌ "Ultimately..." ✅ Just end or use a forward-looking statement

## Subtle Patterns

### The "Journey" Narrative

❌ "Our journey began..." ❌ "Throughout this journey..." ❌ "The path forward..."

### The "Landscape" Metaphor

❌ "In today's digital landscape..." ❌ "Navigating the complex landscape of..." ❌ "The evolving landscape of
technology..."

### The "Solutions" Fixation

❌ Everything is a "solution" ✅ Use: system, tool, approach, method, process

### The "Commitment" Declaration

❌ "We remain committed to..." ❌ "Our unwavering commitment..." ❌ "Demonstrates our commitment..."

## Quick Reference Test

If your text contains ANY of these exact phrases, rewrite:

1. "plays a [vital/crucial/key] role"
2. "seamlessly"
3. "cutting-edge"
4. "Moreover," or "Furthermore,"
5. "testament to"
6. "underscores"
7. "comprehensive solution"
8. "innovative approach"
9. "dramatically improves"
10. "In conclusion,"

## Replacement Guide

Instead of banned phrases, use:

- "plays a crucial role" → "handles" / "manages" / "does"
- "seamlessly integrates" → "works with" / "connects to"
- "cutting-edge" → "new" / "recent" / specific tech name
- "Moreover," → [just start the next sentence]
- "comprehensive solution" → [specific description of what it does]
- "innovative approach" → "different method" / specific technique
- "dramatically improves" → [specific metric]
- "robust" → "handles X requests/second" / "99.9% uptime"
- "manifest" → "show" / "appear" / "create" / "build"
- "revolutionary" → "different" / "new" / [specific change description]
- "next-generation" → "new" / "updated" / "version 2.0" / [specific version]

## Remember

The goal isn't to avoid these phrases by using synonyms. It's to write in a fundamentally different way - direct,
specific, and natural.
