agentic/code/addons/writing-quality/README.md, before:

# Writing Quality Addon

**Type**: Addon (standalone utility)
**Version**: 1.1.0
**Framework Dependency**: None (works with any framework or standalone)

## Overview

The Writing Quality addon provides AI pattern detection and content improvement capabilities. It helps remove AI "tells" from generated content while maintaining sophistication and authenticity.

> **Note**: For positive voice definition (instead of pattern avoidance), see the **[Voice Framework](../voice-framework/README.md)** addon. The Voice Framework provides voice profiles that define what you *want* rather than listing what to avoid.

## Components

### Agents (3)

| Agent | Purpose |
|-------|---------|
| `writing-validator` | Validates content against 505 AI patterns across 6 categories |
| `prompt-optimizer` | Enhances prompts using AI Writing Guide principles |
| `content-diversifier` | Generates varied examples and perspectives |

### Content Directories

| Directory | Contents |
|-----------|----------|
| `core/` | Philosophy and sophistication principles |
| `validation/` | Banned patterns, detection markers (505 patterns) |
| `examples/` | Before/after rewrites demonstrating improvements |
| `context/` | Quick-reference guides for different voices |
| `patterns/` | Pattern JSON files for programmatic validation |

## Installation

```bash
# Deploy writing addon only
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode writing

# Deploy with all frameworks
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode all
```

## Usage

### Validate Content

```bash
# Using the writing-validator agent
"Check this document for AI patterns: docs/readme.md"
```

### Optimize Prompts

```bash
# Using the prompt-optimizer agent
"Optimize this prompt for better output: [your prompt]"
```

### Generate Variations

```bash
# Using the content-diversifier agent
"Generate 5 variations of this concept: [your concept]"
```

## Pattern Categories

The addon detects patterns across 6 categories:

1. **Filler phrases** - Empty hedging ("It's worth noting", "In today's world")
2. **Buzzwords** - Overused tech jargon ("leverage", "cutting-edge")
3. **Vague quantifiers** - Imprecise claims ("significantly improve")
4. **Passive constructions** - Weak voice patterns
5. **Redundant modifiers** - Unnecessary intensifiers
6. **Formulaic structures** - Template-like sentence patterns

## Integration with Frameworks

The Writing Quality addon works seamlessly with:

- **SDLC Complete**: Validate documentation, README files, architecture docs
- **Media/Marketing Kit**: Validate marketing copy, blog posts, social content
- **Voice Framework**: Combine pattern detection with positive voice definition
- **Standalone**: Use independently for any content improvement task

## Voice Framework Integration

For the best writing experience, combine Writing Quality with the Voice Framework:

```bash
# Deploy both addons
aiwg use writing           # Includes Writing Quality + Voice Framework
```

**Complementary approaches:**

| Approach | Writing Quality | Voice Framework |
|----------|----------------|-----------------|
| **Method** | Pattern detection (avoid) | Voice profiles (define) |
| **Focus** | What NOT to say | What TO say |
| **Output** | Issues and warnings | Transformed content |
| **Use Case** | Validation | Generation |

**Recommended workflow:**
1. Define voice profile for your project
2. Generate content using voice profiles
3. Validate output with Writing Quality for edge cases

## Related ADRs

- ADR-008: Plugin Type Taxonomy (defines addon classification)

## License

MIT License - See repository root for details.

Commit message:

docs: replace AI detection messaging with voice control focus
- Updated README hero section to emphasize voice control over detection
- Changed "Writing Quality Before/After" to "Voice Framework" showcase
- Renamed "Remove AI Detection Patterns" use case to "Apply Consistent Voice"
- Updated CLAUDE.md repository purpose and agent descriptions
- Updated USAGE_GUIDE.md core principle and agent descriptions
- Updated writing-quality README to focus on quality validation
- Updated CLI_USAGE.md optimization strategy descriptions

The messaging now focuses on what users want (consistent voice) rather
than what they want to avoid (AI patterns). Voice Framework provides
positive voice definition as the preferred approach.

agentic/code/addons/writing-quality/README.md, after:

# Writing Quality Addon

**Type**: Addon (standalone utility)
**Version**: 1.1.0
**Framework Dependency**: None (works with any framework or standalone)

## Overview

The Writing Quality addon provides content validation and writing improvement capabilities. It works alongside the Voice Framework to ensure consistent, natural writing that matches your intended voice.

> **Recommended**: Use the **[Voice Framework](../voice-framework/README.md)** addon for positive voice definition. The Voice Framework provides voice profiles that define the voice you *want*—the preferred approach for consistent writing.

## Components

### Agents (3)

| Agent | Purpose |
|-------|---------|
| `writing-validator` | Validates content for voice consistency and authenticity |
| `prompt-optimizer` | Enhances prompts using AI Writing Guide principles |
| `content-diversifier` | Generates varied examples and perspectives |

### Content Directories

| Directory | Contents |
|-----------|----------|
| `core/` | Philosophy and sophistication principles |
| `validation/` | Writing quality guidelines and markers |
| `examples/` | Before/after rewrites demonstrating improvements |
| `context/` | Quick-reference guides for different voices |
| `patterns/` | Pattern JSON files for programmatic validation |

## Installation

```bash
# Deploy writing addon only
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode writing

# Deploy with all frameworks
aiwg -deploy-agents --mode all
```

## Usage

### Validate Content

```bash
# Using the writing-validator agent
"Check this document for AI patterns: docs/readme.md"
```

### Optimize Prompts

```bash
# Using the prompt-optimizer agent
"Optimize this prompt for better output: [your prompt]"
```

### Generate Variations

```bash
# Using the content-diversifier agent
"Generate 5 variations of this concept: [your concept]"
```

## Quality Checks

The addon validates content across 6 categories:

1. **Specificity** - Concrete details vs. vague claims
2. **Voice consistency** - Matching the intended tone throughout
3. **Precision** - Accurate quantifiers and metrics
4. **Active voice** - Strong, direct sentence construction
5. **Appropriate modifiers** - Meaningful intensifiers
6. **Natural structure** - Varied, authentic sentence patterns

## Integration with Frameworks

The Writing Quality addon works seamlessly with:

- **SDLC Complete**: Validate documentation, README files, architecture docs
- **Media/Marketing Kit**: Validate marketing copy, blog posts, social content
- **Voice Framework**: Combine quality validation with positive voice definition
- **Standalone**: Use independently for any content improvement task

## Voice Framework Integration

For the best writing experience, combine Writing Quality with the Voice Framework:

```bash
# Deploy both addons
aiwg use writing           # Includes Writing Quality + Voice Framework
```

**Complementary approaches:**

| Approach | Writing Quality | Voice Framework |
|----------|----------------|-----------------|
| **Method** | Quality validation | Voice profiles (define) |
| **Focus** | Content consistency | Voice definition |
| **Output** | Quality assessment | Transformed content |
| **Use Case** | Validation | Generation |

**Recommended workflow:**
1. Define voice profile for your project
2. Generate content using voice profiles
3. Validate output with Writing Quality for edge cases

## Related ADRs

- ADR-008: Plugin Type Taxonomy (defines addon classification)

## License

MIT License - See repository root for details.
