agentic/code/addons/ralph/docs/quickstart.md, before:

# Ralph Loop Quickstart

Get started with iterative AI task execution in 5 minutes.

## What is Ralph?

Ralph (from the "Ralph Wiggum methodology") executes AI tasks in a loop until completion criteria are met:

1. **Execute** your task
2. **Verify** if completion criteria are met
3. **Learn** from failures
4. **Iterate** until success (or limits reached)

**Philosophy**: "Iteration beats perfection" - errors become learning data within the loop rather than session-ending failures.

## Installation

```bash
# Install Ralph addon
aiwg use ralph

# Or install alongside SDLC framework
aiwg use sdlc
aiwg install-plugin ralph
```

## Your First Ralph Loop

### Example 1: Fix Failing Tests

```
/ralph "Fix all failing tests" --completion "npm test passes"
```

Ralph will:
1. Run your tests to see what's failing
2. Analyze and fix the issues
3. Run tests again
4. Repeat until all tests pass (or max iterations reached)

### Example 2: Fix TypeScript Errors

```
/ralph "Fix all TypeScript errors" --completion "npx tsc --noEmit passes"
```

### Example 3: Improve Test Coverage

```
/ralph "Add tests to reach 80% coverage" --completion "coverage report shows >80%"
```

### Example 4: Fix Lint Errors

```
/ralph "Fix all ESLint errors" --completion "npm run lint passes"
```

## Interactive Mode

Not sure about completion criteria? Use interactive mode:

```
/ralph --interactive
```

Ralph will ask you:
- What task should I execute?
- How do I verify it's complete?
- Any files I should avoid?
- Other constraints?

## Natural Language

You can also trigger Ralph with natural language:

- "ralph this: fix all the lint errors"
- "keep trying until the tests pass"
- "loop until coverage is above 80%"
- "ralph it" (after describing a task)

## Monitoring Progress

### Check Status
```
/ralph-status
```

Shows current iteration, progress, and learnings.

### Check Detailed History
```
/ralph-status --verbose
```

Shows full iteration history.

## Managing Loops

### Abort If Stuck
```
/ralph-abort
```

Stops the loop, keeps all changes.

### Abort and Revert
```
/ralph-abort --revert
```

Stops the loop and reverts all changes.

### Resume After Interruption
```
/ralph-resume
```

Continues from the last checkpoint.

### Resume with More Iterations
```
/ralph-resume --max-iterations 20
```

## Key Options

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `--completion` | Required | Verification command/criteria |
| `--max-iterations` | 10 | Safety limit on attempts |
| `--timeout` | 60 | Maximum minutes |
| `--interactive` | false | Ask clarifying questions |
| `--no-commit` | false | Disable auto-commits |
| `--branch` | none | Create feature branch |

## Best Practices

### 1. Be Specific
```
# Good
/ralph "Fix auth module tests" --completion "npm test -- auth"

# Too vague
/ralph "Fix tests" --completion "npm test passes"
```

### 2. Use Verifiable Criteria
```
# Good - can verify with command
--completion "npm test passes"
--completion "npx tsc --noEmit exits with code 0"

# Bad - subjective
--completion "code looks good"
```

### 3. Set Reasonable Limits
- Simple fixes: 5-10 iterations
- Migrations: 15-20 iterations
- Complex tasks: 20-30 iterations

### 4. Let Git Track Progress
Ralph auto-commits each iteration by default, creating a clear history:
```
ralph: iteration 1 - initial attempt
ralph: iteration 2 - fixed auth test
ralph: iteration 3 - fixed edge case
```

## Output Files

Ralph stores state and reports in `.aiwg/ralph/`:

```
.aiwg/ralph/
├── current-loop.json        # Current loop state
├── iterations/              # Individual iteration details
│   ├── iteration-1.json
│   └── iteration-2.json
└── completion-2025-01-15.md # Completion report
```

## Next Steps

- Read [Best Practices](best-practices.md) for effective prompt engineering
- See [Examples](examples/) for common patterns
- Check [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) if you get stuck

## Quick Reference

```bash
# Start a loop
/ralph "task" --completion "criteria"

# Interactive start
/ralph --interactive

# Check status
/ralph-status

# Resume interrupted loop
/ralph-resume

# Abort loop
/ralph-abort
```

Commit message:

docs(ralph): add comprehensive when-to-use guidance and educational content
Created new when-to-use-ralph.md with extensive guidance on Ralph's
proper use cases and avoiding token-burning pitfalls:

- The controversy: why Ralph divides people
- Disaster case: greenfield + vague directive = token burn
- Success case: documented project + implementation focus
- AIWG + Ralph synergy: AIWG defines WHAT, Ralph implements HOW
- When Ralph excels vs when to avoid it
- Industry research integrated from 10+ sources
- Contrary viewpoints documented (double-loop, context-first camps)
- Warning signs of thrashing and readiness checklist

Updated existing documentation:
- README.md: Added "Important: When to Use Ralph" decision table
- quickstart.md: Added "Before You Start" warning section

Key insight emphasized throughout: Ralph is a power tool that excels
at implementation mechanics but thrashes on exploratory work. The
AIWG framework provides the comprehensive context (requirements,
architecture, decisions) that enables Ralph to focus purely on HOW
to implement rather than WHAT to build.

Research sources integrated:
- Augment Code: Context understanding over coordination
- Test Double: Double-loop model as alternative
- NVIDIA: Security concerns with autonomous agents
- VentureBeat: Ralph success stories and adoption
- Multiple token cost and loop drift studies

This addresses the core educational gap around Ralph usage and should
significantly reduce misuse and token waste.

agentic/code/addons/ralph/docs/quickstart.md, after:

# Ralph Loop Quickstart

Get started with iterative AI task execution in 5 minutes.

## Before You Start: Is Ralph Right for This Task?

**Ralph is a power tool.** Before invoking it, ask yourself:

| Question | If NO |
|----------|-------|
| Is my task well-defined with clear requirements? | Document requirements first |
| Can I write a command that verifies success? | Ralph can't help with subjective goals |
| Do I have tests/linting to validate correctness? | Add verification first |
| Is this implementation work, not exploration? | Use Discovery Track for research |

**The token-burning trap**: Ralph excels at HOW to implement but thrashes on WHAT to build. If you don't have clear requirements, Ralph will hallucinate features, contradict itself, and burn tokens producing junk.

**Safe to proceed?** Read on. **Unsure?** See [When to Use Ralph](when-to-use-ralph.md) first.

---

## What is Ralph?

Ralph (from the "Ralph Wiggum methodology") executes AI tasks in a loop until completion criteria are met:

1. **Execute** your task
2. **Verify** if completion criteria are met
3. **Learn** from failures
4. **Iterate** until success (or limits reached)

**Philosophy**: "Iteration beats perfection" - errors become learning data within the loop rather than session-ending failures.

## Installation

```bash
# Install Ralph addon
aiwg use ralph

# Or install alongside SDLC framework
aiwg use sdlc
aiwg install-plugin ralph
```

## Your First Ralph Loop

### Example 1: Fix Failing Tests

```
/ralph "Fix all failing tests" --completion "npm test passes"
```

Ralph will:
1. Run your tests to see what's failing
2. Analyze and fix the issues
3. Run tests again
4. Repeat until all tests pass (or max iterations reached)

### Example 2: Fix TypeScript Errors

```
/ralph "Fix all TypeScript errors" --completion "npx tsc --noEmit passes"
```

### Example 3: Improve Test Coverage

```
/ralph "Add tests to reach 80% coverage" --completion "coverage report shows >80%"
```

### Example 4: Fix Lint Errors

```
/ralph "Fix all ESLint errors" --completion "npm run lint passes"
```

## Interactive Mode

Not sure about completion criteria? Use interactive mode:

```
/ralph --interactive
```

Ralph will ask you:
- What task should I execute?
- How do I verify it's complete?
- Any files I should avoid?
- Other constraints?

## Natural Language

You can also trigger Ralph with natural language:

- "ralph this: fix all the lint errors"
- "keep trying until the tests pass"
- "loop until coverage is above 80%"
- "ralph it" (after describing a task)

## Monitoring Progress

### Check Status
```
/ralph-status
```

Shows current iteration, progress, and learnings.

### Check Detailed History
```
/ralph-status --verbose
```

Shows full iteration history.

## Managing Loops

### Abort If Stuck
```
/ralph-abort
```

Stops the loop, keeps all changes.

### Abort and Revert
```
/ralph-abort --revert
```

Stops the loop and reverts all changes.

### Resume After Interruption
```
/ralph-resume
```

Continues from the last checkpoint.

### Resume with More Iterations
```
/ralph-resume --max-iterations 20
```

## Key Options

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `--completion` | Required | Verification command/criteria |
| `--max-iterations` | 10 | Safety limit on attempts |
| `--timeout` | 60 | Maximum minutes |
| `--interactive` | false | Ask clarifying questions |
| `--no-commit` | false | Disable auto-commits |
| `--branch` | none | Create feature branch |

## Best Practices

### 1. Be Specific
```
# Good
/ralph "Fix auth module tests" --completion "npm test -- auth"

# Too vague
/ralph "Fix tests" --completion "npm test passes"
```

### 2. Use Verifiable Criteria
```
# Good - can verify with command
--completion "npm test passes"
--completion "npx tsc --noEmit exits with code 0"

# Bad - subjective
--completion "code looks good"
```

### 3. Set Reasonable Limits
- Simple fixes: 5-10 iterations
- Migrations: 15-20 iterations
- Complex tasks: 20-30 iterations

### 4. Let Git Track Progress
Ralph auto-commits each iteration by default, creating a clear history:
```
ralph: iteration 1 - initial attempt
ralph: iteration 2 - fixed auth test
ralph: iteration 3 - fixed edge case
```

## Output Files

Ralph stores state and reports in `.aiwg/ralph/`:

```
.aiwg/ralph/
├── current-loop.json        # Current loop state
├── iterations/              # Individual iteration details
│   ├── iteration-1.json
│   └── iteration-2.json
└── completion-2025-01-15.md # Completion report
```

## Next Steps

- Read [When to Use Ralph](when-to-use-ralph.md) to understand Ralph's sweet spot
- Read [Best Practices](best-practices.md) for effective prompt engineering
- See [Examples](examples/) for common patterns
- Check [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) if you get stuck

## Quick Reference

```bash
# Start a loop
/ralph "task" --completion "criteria"

# Interactive start
/ralph --interactive

# Check status
/ralph-status

# Resume interrupted loop
/ralph-resume

# Abort loop
/ralph-abort
```
